# SDN_VideoStreaming

## Testing Environment

	1. Server: Dell PowerEdge T630 Tower Server
	2. Processor: Intel(R) Xeon(R) E5-2630 v3 (20M Cache, 2.40 Ghz, 8 GT/s Intel QPI)
	3. Memory: 16 GB (NUMA #1) out of 32 GB Total (DDR4 2100 MHz)
	4. Storage: 16 GB (NUMA #0) Volatile RAM Disk Drive Volume (NTFS) enclosing VMDK
	5. OS: Ubuntu Desktop 16.04.2 64-bit

## Software Packages Used:

	1. Floodlight (v1.2)
	2. Mininet (v2.2.0b2)
	3. FFMpeg (v3.3)
	4. Python (v2.7)
	5. Wireshark (v2.2.6)

## Project Setup:

	1. Install Floodlight from Scratch (Git Master)
		See: https://floodlight.atlassian.net/wiki/display/floodlightcontroller/Installation+Guide
	2. Install Mininet from Scratch (Git Master – Install Everything)
		See: http://mininet.org/download/#option-2-native-installation-from-source
	3. Install FFmpeg (Git Master)
		a. Git clone git://source.ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg.git
		b. See: https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/CompilationGuide/Ubuntu
		c. (Important!) Add "--enable-libfontconfig" to FFmpeg Configure
		Note: 
			i.	If FFMpeg fails to detect “x265” during installation, try compiling it manually or exclude
				it from the project (remove “--enable-libx265 \” from configuration commandline & rebuild) .
			ii.	It’s suggested to install FFmpeg as “Root” user. If not installed as “root” user, locate the
				directory containing FFmpeg binaries (ffmpeg, ffprobe) and update “PATH” system variable with
				this/these by appending the required changes at the end of ~/.bashrc file. A System Reboot
				maybe required for that.
				eg. If /home/<username>/bin is location of FFmpeg binaries:
					> PATH=/home/<username>/bin:$PATH
					> export PATH
	5. Install Wireshark (Package)
	6. (Optional) Install nLoad (Package) for Bandwidth Monitoring

## Project Execution Instruction:

	1. Go to Base Directory (contains 'SDN_mininet.py', 'Noise_UDP.py', 'SDN_config.py')
	2. Exec: '$python SDN_mininet.py'
	3. Enter configuration parameters (Skip for default)
	4. Exec: 'mininet> stream <path_to_video>'
	5. View Results at 'output/RESULTS.csv'

## Mininet Script Configuration Parameters:

#### Stream Related Parameters:
  
	# Maximum Transmission Unit (Bytes)
	MTU = 1492

	# Protocol Overhead
	# 18 (Ethernet) +
	# 20 (IP) +
	# 12 (IP-PseudoHeader) +
	# 8 (UDP-Header) +
	# 6 (Ethernet-Padding)
	# = 52 Bytes
	OVERHEAD = 52

	# No. of Stream Recorders/Destinations in the Topology
	# Note: In case of Random, if it exceeds allocated hosts, all other than
	# source host becomes Stream Recorder/Destination
	DESTINATION_COUNT = 1

	# IP Address (Must be Multicast) for Streaming by Host
	STREAM_IP = 234.0.0.1

	# Port (Must be Ephimeral) for Streaming by Host
	STREAM_PORT = 5555

	# Port (Must be Ephimeral) for Noise Generated in the Network
	# Noise is generated by all hosts which are niether Source nor
	# Destination in Streaming
	NOISE_PORT = 65535

	# Noise Data Rate (in bps) per Host
	NOISE_DATA_RATE = 32768
	
	# Port (Must be Ephimeral) for SAP (Session Announcement)
	# and exchange of SDPs b/w Streamer & Recorder
	SAP_PORT = 49160

#### Mininet Related Parameters:

	# Type of Topology
	# 1. Bus
	# 2. Ring
	# 3. Mesh
	# 4. Star
	# 5. Random
	# Note: Random doesn't have fixed no. of Hosts in the Network
	TOPOLOGY_TYPE = 1 (Default)

	# No. of Switches in the entire Topology
	SWITCH_COUNT = 4

	# No. of Hosts per Switch in the Topology
	# Note: For Random, this is the Max. Hosts per Switch (0 - Minimum)
	HOST_COUNT_PER_SWITCH = 2

	# Max. Switch-Switch Links in the Topology globally
	# Note: Only valid for Random (Value Range depends on SWITCH_COUNT)
	HOST_COUNT_PER_SWITCH = ?

	# Enable STP at Switch
	# Note: May be required in case of sophisticated topology
	# Note: Helps prevent broadcast storms
	USE_STP = False (F)

	# Link/Interface Speed Requirement for each Host Node (QoS)
	# Range: 1 - 1000 (Mbps)
	HOST_LINK_SPEED = 1

	# Link/Interface Speed Requirement for each Switch Node (QoS)
	# Range: 1 - 1000 (Mbps)
	SWITCH_LINK_SPEED = 1

## Project Description:

	Floodlight is an Open Source SDN Controller, compatible to be used by Mininet, an Open Source 
	Virtual Network Emulator. OVSSwitch provides the necessary toolset for Switching functionality 
	in SDN to Mininet. Since the emergence of Netoworking as a functionality for connecting People 
	across the world, we have only observed patented standards for configuration of networks by some 
	of the most prestigious companies in the networking industry, namely Cisco & Juniper. For instance, 
	Cisco uses IOS as the underlying OS for almost all of the hardwares that it's built so far. It 
	has pre-defined RFC Standards for R&S which means, we can't alter the algorithms they use, or 
	make out-of-the-box changes to adapt to our envisioned network requirements. For ages, we have 
	seen network administrators going on sacrificing and compromising optimalitity in their networks 
	with sub-optimal and fixed solutions of these companies. However, with the emergence of SDN, we 
	have near to Full Control over our network's working, using the same backbone architectures that 
	we've been using but with added functionality of customizability. In our case, OVSSwitch & Floodlight 
	together do that job for R&D Purpose. 
	With a simple Multicast Routing Algorithm implemented over fundamental SDN implementation, we are 
	trying to test the feasability of the network by using Video Streaming as the sole application. Why 
	Video Streaming? It involves Realtime sampling & packeting, QoS specifications, Realtime Media 
	Controlling functionality and most importantly, can't afford large packet losses. All of these
	can be provided by RTP (W/ RTCP) which is an application layer protocol using UDP as the underlying 
	payload container, made solely for Realtime Communications (Audio/Visual). It supports Multi-party 
	Communications & Conferences as well. Applications made over this protocol, also have the provisioning 
	for Error Prevention & Concealment, alongside Timestamping and Sequencing, which together helps in 
	smooth playback irrespective of adverse network conditions like Broadcast Noise. In our case, we are 
	using FFmpeg's inbuild functionality for RTP (PT96) Streaming & Recording over Multicast Network. In 
	the background, we have initiated a simple 'Broadcast Noise' contributed by the hosts in the network, 
	to deploy scalable traffic in the network. QoS implementation by Mininet on the other hand, helps in 
	balancing out this traffic. By analyzing the frames & the packets, we are able to produce mapping of 
	sent and receive quality in SDN. By applying that over Multicast Networks, we are able to test the 
	susceptibility of the network in Multicasting Environments.

## Previously Used/Tested Software Packages/Scripts (See: old/):

	1. LibVLC (from VideoLAN – Native VLC Player Library)
	 This library has no video processing/post-processing logging and control. Also, the binary is produced as a single package without any customizability or addon feature.
	2. Vlcj Java API
	 This API is not VideoLAN proprietary and so, isn’t suitable for R&D purpose.
	3. Apache Ant, Maven with Maven Ant Tasks
	 Use of Maven Ant Tasks is depricated. This was one of the reasons, why we planned to remove Java as dependency from Mininet’s script. Note: Floodlight still requires JDK with Apache Ant.
	4. NoiseUDP (C/Java), StreamVLC (Java), RecordVLC (Java), PlayVLC (Java)

## Noise Calculation Theory:

	Annotations:
		t = Delay b/w Packets (Milliseconds)
		P = Payload Size (Bytes)
		h = Header Size (Bytes) (Always Fixed)
		b = Data Rate (bps) (Given)
		MTU = Maximum Transmission Unit (Always Fixed)
	
	Objective:
		Minimize Z = (1000 / t) aka. Number of Packets transmitted per Second.
	
	Case 1: (Default)
		P is fixed,
			t = 8000 * (h + P) / b
		Optimal Solution: Use max(P) = MTU - h
		Note: This is only feasible if t <= 1000
	
	Case 2:
		t is fixed,
			P = (t * b / 8000) - h
		Optimal Solution: Use max(t) = 1000
		Note: This is only feasible if p <= MTU - h
